# Embed Picasa Tags

***A CLI program to embed picasa tags from .picasa.ini into individual image files***

## Description
Picasa (desktop version) doesn't write tags to PNG or any
other files except JPEG. Instead, it stores the tag information in
`.picasa.ini` files (per-directory). This script allows you to read these
tags from `.picasa.ini` and write them to individual image files in EXIF, IPTC
and/or XMP formats. It will do this recursively for every directory.
It can also optionally convert the images to some other format.

## Requirements
- PHP 5.1 or higher (tested with php-5.3.15 / Linux)
- `php-gd` extension.
- `exiv2` or higher (tested with exiv2-0.23), OR `exiftool` 9.x or higher (tested with exiftool-9.43)
- (optional) ImageMagick's `convert` command for format conversion

Picasa ini files must be generated by Picasa 3.9.12 or newer (tested with
version 3.9.137 (Build 69) under Windows 7).

Tag support by various programs:
* Picasa does not support any tags in PNG files (probably any files except JPEG).
* Picasa will read both MWG and WPG faces, but will write only MWG.
* Windows Photo Gallery supports only WPG.
* DigiKam (as of 3.5.0) supports reading Picasa-written MWG (but not exiftool- or exiv2-written files) and WPG. Writing is in development.

## Usage (Linux CLI)
```
php embed_picasa_tags.php <input_directory> <output_directory>
```
`.picasa.ini` files will be searched for in the input directory.

## Configuration
Configuration constants are defined and described in the beginning of the script.

## Copyright
(C) 2013  Alexander Shaduri <ashaduri@gmail.com>

License: Zlib
